The Vice President:
Hi, this is Joe Biden.
I'm speaking to you from the
University of Pittsburgh,
where I just spoke to students
here about what we've done to
help ease the burden on them
when it comes to the rising cost
of tuition and the accumulating
student debt and what we're
going to do to help create
jobs when they graduate.
You know, today we found out
we've had the 20th month in a
row where we've increased
private sector jobs --
104,000 this month, 104,000
private sector jobs.
And as all you know,
that's not nearly enough.
We have to increase the pace.
We have to act now to do
everything in our power to keep
this economy moving
and to grow jobs.
President Obama is on his way
back from France where he just
met with the leaders of the 20
largest economies in the world,
where he urged our European
friends to step up and stabilize
their own economies
because if they fail,
it will affect the whole world.
Too many Americans
are still struggling.
Too many college students here
at the University of Pittsburgh
and elsewhere are worrying
about the rising cost of their
tuition, and the increasing
accumulation of debt.
And too many of their parents
are in stagnant jobs or out of
work, wondering if they're going
to be able to send their child
back to college next semester.
My dad used to have a saying.
He said, a job is about a
lot more than a paycheck.
It's about dignity.
It's about respect.
And too many Americans have
been stripped of their dignity
through no fault of their own.
So we can't wait to help them.
The President and I
believe we have to act now.
That's why we've introduced
the jobs bill which independent
validators said would
create 2 million new jobs.
Although 51 senators
voted for that jobs bill,
our Republican colleagues in
the Senate used a procedural
requirement that requires it
to have 60 votes, so it failed.
And since then we've taken every
important piece of the jobs bill
and demanded that we
have a separate vote.
But our Republican colleagues
in the Senate have voted
unanimously to vote down
each and every part so far:
to restore 400,000 jobs for
teachers, police officers,
firefighters, putting
them back in classrooms,
on the streets and
in the fire houses.
And then on Thursday, they
unanimously voted down the
second part of our program: to
rebuild our crumbling roads and
bridges, which would have
created more than 400,000
good-paying jobs.
These are all programs that the
Republicans in the past have
supported, but once again,
every Republican voted no --
blocking the majority will to
put these folks back to work.
I think the assumption is
they're voting no because of the
way we would pay for these
jobs, and they are paid for.
Well, we think everybody
should pay their fair share,
and that's why we added a small
surtax on the first dollar after
a person makes his first
$1 million -- to pay for it.
That seems fair to us.
It's a small price to pay to put
hundreds of thousands of people
back to work.
So, look, we can't wait.
We can't wait for the Congress
to start acting responsibly,
and that's why the President
has begun to use his executive
power and making announcements
like one that will put hundreds
of thousands of people -- will
be able to go and refinance
their homes from a 6%
interest they're paying to 4%,
which what the rate is now.
That would save
them $2,000 a year.
That's why the President
announced that beginning next
year, no student will have to
pay back more than 10% of their
discretionary income
toward their student debt.
He also announced new
regulations regarding
prescription drugs to
prevent price gouging.
And there's more to come.
If the Republican
Congress won't join us,
we're going to continue to act
on our own to make the changes
that we can to bring relief to
middle-class families and those
aspiring to get in
the middle class.
Look, it's simple: We refuse
to take no for an answer.
We know these steps taken alone
are not going to solve all of
our problems, but they will make
a difference in the lives of
millions of American families
struggling to hold on.
And you know and I know if the
Republicans would just let the
Congress do its job, let
it step up and meet its
responsibilities, we
could do so much more,
and we could do it immediately.
That's why the President and
I need your help to tell your
Republican congressmen
and senators to step up.
Tell them to stop worrying about
their jobs and start worrying
about yours because we're
all in this together,
and together is the way we're
going to bring America back even
stronger than it was before.
Thank you.